Context
The content of this folter is distributed as part of the article:

**Turning Up the Heat Mimics Allosteric Signaling in Imidazole-Glycerol Phosphate Synthase**

by *Federica Maschietto, Uriel N. Morzan, Florentina Tofoleanu, Aria Gheeraert, Apala Chaudhuri, Gregory W. Kyro, Peter Nekrasov, Bernard Brooks, J. Patrick Loria, Ivan Rivalta, Victor S. Batista*

The correlation.f90 (stored in the CORRELATION/ directory) code is a fortran90 program that can be compiled both with gfortran or ifortran compilers.
The compilation requires linking to LAPACK libraries. This is done in the Makefile in the following way:

LDFLAGS:  -L/usr/local/opt/lapack/lib
CPPFLAGS: -I/usr/local/opt/lapack/includ

The program reads a trajectory in .pdb format and outputs the generalized correlation matrix, the eigenvector centrality distribution, and the correlation matrix named correl.dat.
The name of the trajectory file to read is specified in line 67  - default is trajectory.pdb, change accordingly.

An easy way to convert any trajectory from .dcd to .pdb is through cpptraj
    cpptraj -p topology.pdb -y trajectory.dcd -x trajectory.pdb

Additional parameters to specify are:
line 57 -- > natom needs to be set as the number of atoms in the pdb - default is 454
line 58 -- > nframes number of frames to read  - default is 5000

The correlation coefficients are written in the file "generalized_correlation_coeff.txt"
The Eigenvector Centrality coefficients are written in the file "centrality_eigenvec.txt"

The optimal pathways for motion transfer between the active site (hC84, fH178, fE180) and the effector binding site were calculated employing the Dijkstra algorithm.

The possible edges composing the pathway are all the possible pair of amino acids in the system with the exception of the ones included in the exclusion list generated by the program edges.f90 (stored in the EDGES/ directory).

The only input of the edges.f90 program is the trajectory file and the edges.inp (its usage its explained within) file and the output is the notfour.txt file containing all the excluded pair of amino acids whose connection is not going to be consider as a possible edge composing the optimal pathways.

The optimal pathways are computed by executing the script paths.sh (in the directory PATHS/), the running directory should contain a copu og the correl.dat matrix and the notfour.txt exclusion list. Example:

to compute the N optimal pathways from amino acid XXX to YYY run the script in the following way

./paths.sh N

and in the file script.txt the initial and final amino acids in the pathway should be indicated.

.....
A test trajectory is provided in the CORRELATION folder. 
Before running the trajectory should be unzipped.

